This is William Clark Gable, one of the
most successful Hollywood leading men
ever
and one of the most unlikel, his ears
were too big and stuck out there were
gaps between his teeth and his voice was
high and loud. Clark Gable was born Feb.
1st, 1901 in Cades Ohio.  He was the
only child of William Henry Gable &
Adaline Hirschmann Gable.  Clark's
father was an experienced oil well
driller,  his mother Adaline was a
housewife that unfortunately passed away
when Clark was only 10 months old. She
died on a fourteenth of november 1901
believed from a seizure that was probably
caused from a brain tumor. Clark was sent
to live with Adalines family in Meadsville
Pennsylvania while his father
William return to oil fields in Ohio.
There his father meets and marrys Jeannie
Dunlap on the sixteenth of April 1903
The couple quickly reclaim young Clark
and the family moved to Jenny's hometown
Hopedale Ohio. Clark Gable will spend some
of the happiest days of his life in
Hopedale and in this house. He was
pampered by step mother being an only
child she considered him as her own. She
keep him clean and well-groomed. Clark
was considered a good student and love
music and the arts,  thanks to Jeannie.
Now this is Clark showing off his
musical talents as a youngster while
playing in all adult band and this is
clark at Hopewell Highschool in 1916. He's
on the second row from the front and
second from the right. The next year in
1917 the Clark family moved to this farm
at 3150 Alliance Road. It's now county
road 125 in Pelmier Ohio.  It's near
Akron. He attended Edinburgh high school
for a short time where he actually rode
a horse to school and back each day. Clark
soon grew tired of farm work. He quit
school at age of 16, got a job in Akron
at a rubber tire plant. Now this is the
Miller tire company that Clark was
working at when he visited the Akron
music hall one afternoon after work to
see the performance of The Bird of
Paradise. Clark Gable knew immediately
what he wanted to be. An actor. Acting
was better than farming and factory work
and he volunteered at the Playhouse
doing whatever they wanted him to do
sweeping floors running errands he even
had one walk-on part as an extra. His
first taste of acting was cut short when
he learned that Jenny, his stepmother, had
died at their farm on January the 11th
1920 of tuberculosis and cancer of the
bowels.
Jenny is buried in the Palmar cemetery just
down the road from their home.
William Clark's name is on her tombstone
but he's buried in California and died
in 1948. Soon after Jeannys death William
Clark moved to the oil fields of Oklahoma
and Clark soon followed his dad. After
two years of working in the oil fields
he had saved enough money. Clark joined
another theater group
unfortunately the group soon went broke
leaving Clark and others stranded in
Butte Montana making his way finally to
Oregan with a fellow actor and after working
in several different jobs he managed to
join another theater group. There he
meets Josephine Dylan, theatre manager
and acting coach. She took a personal
interest in Clark determined to make an
actor out of Clark Gable. She paid to
have his teeth fixed, filling in the
front gaps. She had his hair styled and
told him how to lower his high-pitched
voice
unfortunately, there's not much you can
do about his large ears that stuck out.
Now this proved to be the biggest
obstacle to getting into the movie
business. Years later his ears will be
operated on and that will help some.
Although Josephine was several years
older than Clark the couple were married
in December of 1924 and they'll move to
Hollywood. Money will be tight and what
extra there was from Josephine's acting
classes will be spent on Clark trying to
break into the movie business. For the
next few years Gable will play extras in
several silent films
and in 1926 Clark and Josephine will
separate. He will begin keeping company
with wealthy women that he thought could
further his career. For awhile he will
leave Hollywood and try to return to the
state. In 1930 Josephine will file
for divorce on grounds of desertion. She
will always say that Gable married his
second wife Ria Lingham because Ria
could do more for his career than she
could. Gables marriage to Josephine was
strange.
He always said that the marriage was
never consummated and it was a marriage
of convenience only, however, it will be the
only marriage for Josephine and she'll
always claim to love Clark. She soon
fell on hard times after the divorce.
A few years later she went to L.B. Mayer
saying  Clark was not helping her
financially and threatened to go to the
newspapers. Mayor begin taking two
hundred dollars out of Clark's pay to
send to Josephine. It was later shown
that Gable sent her money to keep her from
foreclosure on her modest home.
He also left provisions to pay of her
mortgage.  41 years after her divorce from
Clark Gable on the 11th of November
1971, Josephine Dylan will die of a long
time illness at a sanatorium in Glendale.
She'll be buried at the Calvary Cemetery
in East Los Angeles. Josephine was 87
years old.  While Clark was separated from
Josephine in 1930 he met Maria Langham
while in New York working back on
the stage. Although Ria as she was called,
was several years older than Gable,
she was from a socially prominent
wealthy Texas family
and could afford to help his career
back to where he really wanted to be in
hollywood working on movies. They were
married  April 3rd, 1931. Gable will
be her fourth marriage and his second.
While married to Ria Langham,  and with
her help, he will become more
sophisticated and polished. His movie
career will begin to drastically improve.
He will get his first speaking role in
The Painted Desert with William Boyd. Now
this was before Boyd became Hopalong Cassidy.
MGM will offer Clark a contract
after seeing his performance in The
Painted Desert. They will give him his
first leading role in Dance Fools Dance
with Joan Crawford. Clark Gable will be a
leading man for the next 30 years.
In 1932 he stars in Red Dust with Jean
Harlow.  The next year he teams up again
with Joan Crawford in Dancing Lady.
Also, a young Fred Astaire will make his
first dancing appearance on the screen
During the filming of Dancing Lady
Gable will become hospitalized with
infected teeth. the infection will spread
through his body causing him to have to
have all of his teeth pulled.
This caused delay in filming and cost
the studio money.
As punishment, Clark was rented out to
the low-budget Columbia Pictures for a
comedy called It Happened One Night. Gable
thought the picture was awful he didn't
like it.
The picture was turned down by several
actresses before Claudette Colbert
agreed, at double her wages, to take it.
Colbert and Gable both thought the little
movie was stupid but the public loved it.
It will be the only Academy Award
Clark Gable will ever receive. The movie
will recieve five Academy Awards putting
Clark Gable back in the good graces of
MGM executives. In the early part of 1935
Gable will star with Loretta Young in
The Call of the Wild. During the
filming Loretta and Gable will become
romantically involved, or at least that's
what everyone thought. After filming
Loretta will discovered that she's
pregnant
Both Loretta and Clark have morals
clauses in their contracts and if the studio
found out about her pregnancy they would
both lose their contracts. Loretta took a
long trip to Europe.  Judy, their daughter
was born in November that year. Loretta
went to great lengths to hide the fact
that Judy was her own daughter. She
claimed to have adopted Judy and it was
years before Judy discovered that
Loretta Young and Clark Gable were her
natural parents.
Clark Gable will never publicly
acknowledged his daughter. In 1940, when
Judy was four years old
Loretta Young will marry producer Tom
Lewis. Judy will take Lewis  last name.
Tom and  Loretta will have two sons during
their marriage.
Christopher and Peter. Loretta and Tom
will divorce in 1969 after a bitter battle.
She will not marry again unti 1993 at the age of 80.
She'll meet Gene Louis, a fashion
designer that years earlier had designed
her gowns for the Loretta Young show.
They will remain married until his death four
years later in 1997. That same year she
married Gene Louis, Loretta will buy this
house at 1075 Mantanna avenue in Palm
Springs and live there until her death
in 2004. Loretta Young will died of
ovarian cancer on August 12th, 2000
at the age of 87, while staying
at the home of her sister Georgina Montavon
the wife of Ricardo Montavon.  Judy
Lewis the daughter of Loretta Young and
Clark Gable will die of cancer on
November 25th,  2011 at the age of 76,
51 years after her father Clark Gable's
death and 11 years after her mother
Loretta Young. The same year 1935 that
Clark Gable stared with Loretta Young
in The Call of the Wild, he will also
share billing with Charles Laughton in
Mutiny on the Bounty. He didn't like it
because he was told he had to shave off
his famous mustache to get the part. He
felt better after being nominated for
the academy award. The next year he will
star with Jeanette MacDonald in San
Francisco and in 1937 he'll be paired
with a younger actress Jean Harlow in
Saratoga. Harlow had been in poor health
before filming began and on the
29th of May,  during a love scene
Harlow actually collapsed in Gables arms
from exhaustion.
Doctors diagnosed her with gall bladder
infection. After several days and not
returning to the set, Gable visits Jean
at her home. He becomes concerned when he
sees her condition. On the 6th of June
and days after she had collapsed on the
set of Saratoga, she's taken to the Good
Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles with a
new diagnosis of acute kidney infection.
The medicine prescribed for her gallbladder
was now killing her. In 1937 there was no
antibiotics for kidney infection after
arriving at the hospital
Jean quickly slipped into a coma and on
the 7th of June, 1937 at
11:37am Jean Harlow will pass
away at the age of 26. She will be buried
in the mausoleum at Forrest Lawn  Memorial
Park in Glendale.
Clark Gable will attend Jeans funeral
with his new love interest
Carole Lombard. It will be two more years
in 1939 before Gable gets his divorce from
Maria Langham and is able to marry
Carole Lombard. That same year Clark
Gable with star in his most famous role
as Rhett Butler in Gone with the Wind.
The studio will up his salary so that he can
afford to pay Maria her demand so that
she will give him a divorce. Ria will
stay in Hollywood a few years after
divorcing Clark. She will date other
actors but she will never remarry.  She will
eventually return to Houston. She will
pass away on September the 24th 1966 at
the age of 82.
She's buried in the Glendale cemetery in
Houston.
She'll be remembered in Houston society
as once being the wife of Clark Gable.
It was well known that the studio heads
decided that the part of Rhett Butler
could only be played by Clark Gable. Even
though Gable will refuse to use a
southern accent. Carole Lombard had
hoped that she would get the part of
Scarlett O'Hara so that she could work
with Clark.
However, the part of Scarlett went to Vivian Leigh.
Gone with the Wind will become one
of the best-known films ever.
It will secure the film legend of
Clark Gable.  It will recieve 10 Academy
Awards. Gable will be nominated for best
actor, but he won't win.
However, his co-star Vivien Leigh will.
One of the most famous lines in movie
history
"Frankly my dear, I don't give a damn"  that
one word cost the studio $5,000 and they
said it was completely worth it.
Clark Gable was now finally divorced from
Ria and Lombard had been divorced from
William Dick Powell since 1933.
After a break in the filming
of Gone with the Wind,  Carol and Clark
and best man Outto Winkle drove to
Kingman Arizona on the 29th of  March 1939 and
got married.
Gable said this time with Lombard was the
happiest time of his entire life.
The couple bought a farm in Encino
California located at 16645 Ashley Oaks.
They raised chickens, horses and
cows.  Clark bought a tractor Carol
redecorate the house and seemed content
to be a housewife and love the idea of
being Carole Lombard Gable.  Only a few
weeks after the start of World War 2
Carole Lombard was asked to go on a Bond
Drive in order to help the war cause.
At the same time Clark was filming Somewhere
I'll find You with Lana Turner.  Carol had
just finished what will be her last film
To Be or Not to Be with Jack Benny and
Robert Stack.
The volunteer left by train heading for
Indiana on the 12th of January, 1942.  After a
successful Bond Drive, Carol was anxious to
get back to her home and her husband. She
was accompanied by her mother Elizabeth
Peters.  Clark Gable's publicity agent and
best man at his wedding
Outto Winkler was also alone. The TWA
transcontinental flight 3 will stop in Las
Vegas Nevada to refuel.
Clark Gable was anxious to see his wife
returning early.  He goes to the airport
to wait his wife's arrival.  The DC 3 with
22 people aboard left Las Vegas minutes
after 7pm on January 16th, 1942.
30 miles southwest of Vegas for no apparent
reason
flight 3 explodes into a nevada mountain side
killing all aboard.  Rescuers
are seen here
removing Carol Lombards body wrapped in a
blanket.
Carol and her mother will be buried in
the mausoleum at Forest Lawn Memorial
Park in Glendale California. The same
mausoleum that Jean Harlow was buried in
some four years earlier.
Carole Lombard was 33 years old.
The entire nation will mourn alone with
Clark Gable the death of his wife.
Clark will keep their home in Encino
the rest of his life. He will refuse to
allow any changes to her bedroom for
years.
Friends say he was emotionally
devastated.  Both Clark and Carol were
very patriotic but he felt that bond
drives was not enough, so after her death
he enlisted and did 13 weeks of officer
training school. He ended up assigned to
the 351st bombardment group.  His job was
to film a record of bombing missions.
This is a picture taken by Captain Clark.
Now this is Captain Clark getting ready
to go on a mission.
He was also trained as an Ariel gunner.
There were no free rides. His plane was
hit several times once by spitfire and
other times by strapnal,  barely missing him.
Major Gable resigned from service June
12th,  1944 for being over age for combat.
In 1945 Adventure, with a Greer Garson
will be his first movie after his
military career. In 1947 he will star in
the Hucksters with Deborah Carr and Ava
Gardner and in 1948 it'll be Homecoming
with Lana Turner and Anne Baxter.The next
year in 1949, almost eight years after
Carole Lombards death, Clark Gable will
marry model and actress Sylvia Ashley,  the
widow of her second husband Douglas
Fairbanks senior. They will slip away
from reporters on the 20th of December 1949
to a friend's home near Santa Barbara
and marry. After a two-week honeymoon in
Hawaii the couple returned to the ranch
house
Sylvia will start redecorating
the house, even Carol's bedroom, the
marriage seemed doomed from the
beginning.  While still married to Sylvia
Clark with star in Key to the City with
no other than Loretta Young. This must
have been awkward for both actors, and in
1952 Clark Gable and Sylvia Ashley will
divorce after less than two-and-a-half
years of marriage. Sylvia will marry
once more after Clark. She will die
the 29th of June,1977 of bone cancer at the age
of 73. The next year in 1953, MGM cancels
his contract along with Greer Garson's
Judy Garland's and others. They were
cutting back on high salary actors.
During 1954 Clark became withdrawn and
depressed. He was always a heavy drinker
but it became worse.
Things will improve in 1955
as a freelance actor he will team up
with Susan Hayward in Soldier of Fortune
for 20th Century Fox and on July the
11th, 1955 Clark were marry for his
final time. It will be his fifth marriage and
her fourth.  He will marry Kay Williams
Speckle. Kay had a son and daughter from a
previous marriage that Clark will come
to love.  The same year that
Clark marrys Kay,  he stars in The Tall Man
with Jane Russell.  In 1958 at the age of
57 he will work with Burt Lancaster in
Run Silent Run Deep. In 1960 at the age
of 59 and after decades of being the
most consistent box-office performer
ever, Clark Gable will star in his last
screen performance in The Misfits.
His co-star will be Marilyn Monroe
Montgomery Clift and Eli Wallach.
Eli Wallach is considered one of the
best character actors in Hollywood. He
will die years after The Misfits in New
York City on June 24th, 2014
at the age of 98.  Montgomery Cliff will die
of a heart attack six years after fame
in The Misfits on July the 23rd, 1966 at
the age of 45.  The last words that
Montgomery Clift will speak is when a
friend asked him if he wished to watch The
Misfits on television with him.
His answer was absolutely not.
Marilyn Monroe will die of a drug
overdose
two years later after finishing Misfits
on the 5th of August, 1962. She was 36 years
At the beginning of Misfits Clark
Gable received a star on the Hollywood
Walk of Fame on February the 8th, 1960.
It's located at 1608
Vine Street. In order to play his part as
the old cowboy Gaylord Landing, Clark
lost 35 pounds and had to cut back on
the booze.  When Marilyn became too
infatuated with her co-sta,r as she often
did while shooting movies, they say that
Clark would pull out his teeth and do
his best impression of Gabby Hayes. That
usually did the trick.  During filming of
Misfits Clark Gable will learn his wife
Kay is pregnant with his son he will never
see.  Clark was delighted and looking
forward to the future. Three days after
finishing filming,
Clark Gable will be rushed to the
hospital on the 6th of  November 1960 while
complaining with chest pains.
Ten days later on the 16th of November
1960, William Clark Gable will die of a
blood clot related to heart troubles.
Kay will allow Clark to be intombed  next to
his third wife Carole Lombard. Clark
Gable was 59 years old.  His only son John
Clark Gable will be born March the
20th,1961.  Four months
after Clark Gable's death.
Kay Williams Gable will never remarry.  She
will later sale their
Encino ranch.  Developers were divide the
ranch into the Gable Estates.  Clark once
asked Kay if she wanted to decorate the
Encino home. Her answer was no,
Carol had good taste so why should I.
This to me was a sign of a kind lady.  Kay Gable
will go into a Houston hospital for
triple bypass heart surgery in May of
1983.  She will never
regain consciousness and die on
May 25th,  1983.
She will be entombed close to Clark
Gable and Carole Lombard at the Forrest
Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale. Kay Gables
with 66 years old.  John Clark Gable will
grow up to follow his famous father's
footsteps into show business.